# COMP 527 Final Project Team 14: Tortoise and the Achilles
## Studying the extension of ordinary logic with natural numbers and recursion over natural numbers


Gödel's System T is an extension of the Natural Deduction Calculus (ND) which introduces the natural numbers as a connective. System T also introduces a recursion scheme called Primitive Recursion over the natural numbers. Gödel's work took place in the mid 20th century when mathematicians were attempting to fit mathematics into a formal logical framework, one example of which is Dedekind-Peano arithmetic \cite{peano_arithmetic}. System T integrates the axioms laid out by Dedekind \& Peano with ND. Although System T was first introduced in 1958\cite{GodelPaper}, the logic has maintained relevance. For example, it was recently mechanized in Agda\cite{AgdaImplementedPaper}, and is often used as a jumping-off point for modern works (as seen in \cite{strongNormalization}). System T has many properties of note; studied here are the Weak Normalization, as well as the ability to encode typical arithmetic operations via primitive recursion. Weak normalization says that every proof either steps, or reaches a normal form\cite{weak-normalization}. One can also prove strong normalization, which says that every proof reaches a normal form\cite{strongNormalization}, but that was not feasible given the time constraints of this project. The relevance of these properties are further explored in the formalization section. Finally, it seemed natural to include a mechanization of System T in Beluga; proof mechanization and the Curry-Howard correspondence have been central themes of this course, and the mechanization of System T in Agda motivates a similar mechanization in Beluga. 
